cheetah's running at speeds of up to 120
km/h with acceleration reaching a
hundred kilometers an hour in just three
seconds cheetahs are the fastest land
animal to put that into perspective they
can run the 100-meter sprint almost four
seconds faster than Usain Bolt's and
they can accelerate faster than a sports
car making them undoubtedly one of the
most impressive animals on earth so how
exactly do cheetahs hunt and what is it
that makes them such specialized killers
[Music]
cheaters are slender bodied and slight
compared to other big cats they can be
told apart from leopards by their
greyhound alike physique and the black
tear lines running from the inside of
their eye down to the mouth these lines
are thought to help protect cheetahs
vision from glare and allow them to see
fantastic distances of up to five
kilometres this means they can see their
prey long before they can be seen
themselves the cheetah is a masterful
hunter with a 58 percent success rate
that's higher than both lions and
leopards unlike the other African big
cats their daytime hunters with
relatively poor eyesight at night they
rely on their incredible day vision and
awesome bursts of speed to catch their
prey the short distance high-octane
Sprint's are exactly what their
streamlined bodies are built for with a
long flexible spine and slim but
muscular legs cheetahs can cover almost
7 metres per stride and their claws are
unique amongst cats they are blunt and
non-retractable just like running cleats
this gives an exceptional grip unlike
your cat at home
cheetahs long fluffy tails are actually
flattened and a rudder shaped allowing
them unrivaled agility and balance the
cheetah also has a secret weapon a
special adaptation called the dewclaw
this very sharp curved cloth sits higher
up the leg than the rest
used to trip up prey at high speed it's
key to the Cheetahs hunting technique
cheetah cubs are born with a funny furry
mantle which runs down their neck and
back this camouflages them in long grass
but it's also thought to disguise them
to look like the feisty and aggressive
honey badger this mistaken identity
might mean that potential predators will
steer clear and baby cheetahs need all
the help they can get they're highly
vulnerable and most died within the
first three months of birth often killed
by lions or hyenas Cubs are often stolen
from the wild for the illegal pet trade
- sadly just 7,000 wild cheetahs are
left today
making them the most endangered big cat
in Africa
[Music]